On the Simulation of Networked Sensor Systems

*College of Computer Science, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310027, P. R. China*

A typical *wireless sensor network (WSN)* consists of a large number of sensor nodes, and is envisioned to support a wide range of applications.
As most sensor nodes are operating unattended for a long lifetime, the need for robust software is very important for networked sensor
systems. Simulation of networked sensor systems should be an important phase in application development. In this paper, we provide a detailed
technical review of sensor network simulators. We not only list existing sensor simulators in the literature, but also summarize each simulator¡¯s
advantages and disadvantages. Hence, simulator users can benefit from this summarization. We also include the most recent works, including
*TimeTOSSIM*, *AvroraZ*, and *COOJA*, etc. We provide a taxonomy of various simulators based on the simulator architecture, the simulated CPU
model, radio model, and sensor model. We point out some challenges of sensor network simulation, and summarize some recent techniques
to address these challenges. Simulator developers can benefit from these descriptions. Finally, we further highlight some guidelines from both
simulator users¡¯ perspective and simulator developers¡¯ perspective.

Rapid progress in micro-electromechanical systems (MEMS)
and radio frequency (RF) design has enabled the development
of low-power and inexpensive networked embedded systems,
such as sensor nodes. These sensor nodes are capable of capturing
various physical information, such as temperature, pressure,
humidity, etc. A typical wireless sensor network (WSN)
consists of a large number of such sensor nodes [1¨C10], and is
envisioned to support a wide range of applications, including
military surveillance, habitat monitoring, and infra-structural
protection, etc.

More Python resources:

http://www.python.org: The major Python Web site. It contains code, documentation, and pointers to Python-related pages around the Web. This Web site is mirrored in various places around the world, such as Europe, Japan, and Australia; a mirror may be faster than the main site, depending on your geographical location. 

http://docs.python.org: Fast access to Python¡¯s documentation. 

http://pypi.python.org: The Python Package Index, previously also nicknamed the Cheese Shop, is an index of user-created Python modules that are available for download. Once you begin releasing code, you can register it here so that others can find it. 

http://aspn.activestate.com/ASPN/Python/Cookbook/: The Python Cookbook is a sizable collection of code examples, larger modules, and useful scripts. Particularly notable contributions are collected in a book also titled Python Cookbook (O¡¯Reilly & Associates, ISBN 0-596-00797-3.) 

http://scipy.org: The Scientific Python project includes modules for fast array computations and manipulations plus a host of packages for such things as linear algebra, Fourier transforms, non-linear solvers, random number distributions, statistical analysis and the like.